
# OCA PGB Meeting, 2020-08-27

**PGB Member Attendees**

- Jason Keirstead, IBM Security (JK)
- Duncan Sparrell, SFractal (DS)
- Kent Landfield, McAfee (KL)
- Forrest B. Hare, SAIC (FBH)
- Stephen Wood, Tripwire (SW)

**Guests**
- David Kemp, NSA Cybersecurity directorate (DK)
- Kathleen Trahan, McAfee (KT)
- RoseAnn Guit, IBM Security (RG)
- Russ Warren, IBM Security (RW)
- Thierry Supplisson, IBM Security (TS)
- Jory Burson, OASIS Open (JB)

## Agenda / Minutes

**1. Russ Warren provides an overview of the status of the working groups:**
   - SIM and Enpoints are kicking off first as they have the most critical mass of interest
   - Ideal to have ~3 companies participating in each group 
   - Additionally, an OpenC2/OpenDXL Ontology group also booting up to generate further alignment
   - Suggestion at future meetings is to have a slide or summary of activites to make it clear that the workstreams/workgroups are an OCA activity overseen by the board.
   - ACTION to RW to create "organizational" deck
   - ACTION to RW, JB to share information about workstreams with broader OCA Community

**2. Marketing Committee Update from Kathleen Trahan**
- Marketing committee also establishing working groups as well
    - Focused on activities to improve engagement:
        - High-priority items are a webinar in September timeframe. Likely pushed back due to delay on SCAP2 (Mitre process).
        - Blog series - asking for members to come forward with blog post
        - Q: Will be there be a press announcement?
            - For SCAP2, other activities - to be decided
    - FYI: RSA Call for Papers opened up today; JK would be happy to work on a proposal for a talk on the OCA. KL volunteers.
        - Suggestion that the OCA group volunteers to be a session chair (collection of topics around open security)
        - Discussion about RSA & topic/session themes
        - ACTION to Marketing committee to explore sessions selection to see if this is a possibility

**3. Jason Keirstead shares research project sponsored by IBM Security in Canadian Institute of Cybersecurity**

- Use cases in critical environments and what are the data formats required.
- PhD students working on this.
- JK trying to structure this as an OCA research project th at IBM Security is funding. 
- If you are interested in this project please let JK know.
- SW: Tripwire would be interested
- ACTION all - FYI, let JK know 

**4. Theirry Supplisson provides uppdate from TSC on code management process**

- STiX Shifter Governance process - getting maintainers working in a more open process.
- Governance process leverages exsiting document. Working on release management and other technical workflows to manage change control flow. 
- Recording what has happened, what is happening next and what is in process to increase visibility
- Release / version managment is the next big step.
- Q: how does this document relate to the governance document of the PGB?
    - The template is the same format, but at a lower level - this is what happens for the daily execution of project maintainance.
- Q: Forrest Hare has a nominee for the TSC, how can they get involved in the CCB?
    - We basically need to connect the person to the CCB but it is not a problem to add new people.
- Q: Where would you like to share this from?
    - We need to validate the process with the other TSC members on Monday first.

**5. Forrest Hare shares TSC rep nominee**

- SAIC nominates Doug Austin.
- Acceptance is by call for objections. Will send this out to the mailing list. No one on the call objects.
- FYI: there is no fixed number of reps on the TSC. Currently there are 7 members.

**6. AOB**
- DS shares info on open plugfest for OpenC2 and will share with the wider group - see https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-usecases/tree/master/SBOM-PoC